## Can Data Die? Concern of Privacy
====

When I wandered around data visualization posts during week 2, the blog post "Can Data Die?" drew my attention. As many tasks and utilities are digitized, the spread of 'data' becomes common such as illegal movie downloads from U-torrent (P2P), PDF scanned e-books, or videos without consent. Of course, the main character of the post, Lena Forsén's picture was actually spread by engineers who wanted to test images for their research, which eventually engineers won a lawsuit later against copyright owner, Playboy. The spread of the image seems not problematic because of the lawsuit, but the privacy concern rises here. Lena Forsén herself wants to be forgotten or retired both as a model and digital image. Despite Lena Forsén's request, her image keeps flourishing on the Internet as high as 2nd frequently in 2020, according to the data visualization of the post. The histogram in the post gave me a clear example of a possible privacy violation in a digitized society: Privacy to be forgotten from the past, right to be forgotten.

According to the Daniel Soloves' _Six General Types of Privacy_, one of six types of privacy is 'secrecy,' which hides unwanted information about a past self (Soloves, 2008). In the other words, the individual owner of information should have the right to keep secret or stop prevailing of information. However, Lena Forsén's picture case is one example of failing the secrecy by the digitization of spread. I think the histogram in the post did a great job of showing the 'level' of controversy about the situation, for rather than just mentioning 'thousands, millions,' showing the histogram works better for comparing the situation in numbers. To be honest, it is shocking to know that the usage of  Lena Forsén's picture increased to the 2nd most during 2020 because the old image from the 1970s is still, no, actually more frequently used in recent days. _Can Data Die?_ article gives me an impression of ethics needs to come along with digital humanities tasks and the power of visualization.

====
 # Reference
 Nelson, K. A. (2011, December). Daniel Solove's six general types of privacy. in propria persona. Retrieved March 5, 2022, from https://inpropriapersona.com/articles/daniel-soloves-six-general-types-of-privacy/
