## Crowdsourcing Culture & Managing Metadata - DPLA
====

The website Digital Public Library of America provides one good example of 'tagging', or finding wanted data by metadata, data of data. When the user inputs keyword in the search bar, the DPLA returns results that depend on the metadata of the results. Each data are consist of multiple metadata like creator, Created Date, partner, contributing institution, collection, publisher, type, format, URL, Standardized Rights Statement, or rights. I think showing metadata is very important for information search because searching data with a topic sometimes does not contain all information needed. Also, sometimes students are collecting data by multiple keywords for their tasks, such as searching journal articles with main, narrow, and broad keywords about a topic. Not only for academic fields but metadata is also important for entertainment, such as finding a favorite genre of movies. Overall, DLPA provides a great example of data with metadata, which is commonly seen today as tags.

I read one example of data without metadata last semester in IS 101, the Library of Babel. It is a library that contains all the knowledge of the Universe, but people cannot find their most desired knowledge because there is no way to search. Try it! https://libraryofbabel.info/ Also, I had the opportunity to create a data archive about COVID-19 as IS 101 project, by using the Omeka website. My group's items have multiple tags or metadata like title, subject, description, creator, source, publisher, date, contributor, format, and language. The Omeka website's archive pages are quite similar to the DPLA's metadata format, which I felt familiar with when exploring the Digital Public Library of America website. This is my group's website, you can see the data about COVID-19 fake news or misinformation. https://is101fall2021.web.illinois.edu/items/browse?collection=6&page=3
