## GETting Data
====

New York Times article _Your Apps Know Where You Were Last Night, and They’re Not Keeping It Secret_ is one example of 'getting data' but without realizing it. With the development of digital and information technology, IT companies now gain broader access to data that seemed impossible to collect in real-time. Google Map presented in the NYT article is one of them. This unexpected data collection is formed by digitization, "the process of changing from analog to digital form," like scanning paper or collecting the location of a device (Gartner, n.d.). The Google Map is one example that collects location data of Ms. Margin's daily route toward the workplace (school classroom), specific times to visit the doctor's office, gym, and Weight Watchers (VALENTINO-DeVRIES et al, 2018). The article gives me a sense of data collecting that happens without or unconsciously in daily life, and data collection is one field that requires following along with data ethics.

The same experience happened to me, I am surprised every time Gmail reports "This is your route in the current timeline..." The message contains the route that restaurants that I visited often, and when I turn on Google Map and touch the place I visited, the application show message "You visited this place a few days ago." I know this is quite horrifying, and Google Map's situation gives me a clear impression of data collection and privacy settings. Still, seems it is hard to find a clear way to confirm terms and services for data collecting because most descriptions of consent are complex and hard to comprehend, but simplification of consent would leave a possibility of omitting necessary detail of privacy consent (Nissenbaum, 2011). Overall, the article _Your Apps Know Where You Were Last Night, and They’re Not Keeping It Secret_ provides one possible data collection without expectation, and also provides an idea of caution when collecting and gathering consent data.

# References
- Valentino-devries, J., Singer, N., Keller, M. H., &amp; Krolik, A. (2018, December 10). Your apps know where you were Last night, and they're not keeping it secret. The New York Times. Retrieved May 10, 2022, from https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/12/10/business/location-data-privacy-apps.html 
- Gartner_Inc. (n.d.). Definition of digitization - gartner information technology glossary. Gartner. Retrieved May 10, 2022, from https://www.gartner.com/en/information-technology/glossary/digitization 
- Nissenbaum, H. (2011). A Contextual Approach to Privacy Online. Dædalus, the Journal of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences.
